pySimBlocks/docs/blocks/operators/algebraic_function.md, before:

# Algebraic Function

## Summary

The **Algebraic Function** block evaluates a user-defined, stateless Python
function at each simulation step.

It implements an algebraic mapping between input and output signals, possibly
depending on the current simulation time.

---

## Mathematical definition

The block implements a general algebraic relation of the form:

$$
y[k] = g(t_k, \Delta t_k, u_1[k], u_2[k], \dots)
$$

where:
- $ u_i[k] $ are the input signals at step $k$,
- $ y[k] $ is the output signal,
- $ t_k $ is the current simulation time,
- $ \Delta t_k $ is the time step since the previous activation.

The function $ g $ is provided by the user as a Python function.

---

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Description | Required |
|------|------|-------------|----------|
| `file_path` | string | Path to the Python file containing the user-defined function. | Yes |
| `function_name` | string | Name of the function $ g $  to call inside the block. | Yes |
| `input_keys` | list[string] | Names of the input ports $ u_1, \dots, u_m $. | Yes |
| `output_keys` | list[string] | Names of the output ports returned by the output function. | Yes |
| `sample_time` | float | Execution period of the block. If omitted, the global simulation time step is used. | No | 

--- 

## Inputs 

Inputs are dynamically defined by `input_keys`. 

- Each input must be connected. 
- Each input is a NumPy array of shape $ (n,1) $. 

--- 

## Outputs 

Outputs are dynamically defined by `output_keys`. 

- Each output is a NumPy array of shape $ (n,1) $. 

---

## Execution semantics

- The block is stateless.
- The block has direct feedthrough.
- At each activation, the function is evaluated as:

```python
g(t, dt, **inputs)
```

Commit message:

[fix]  setting algebraic initial condition from function

pySimBlocks/docs/blocks/operators/algebraic_function.md, after:

# Algebraic Function

## Summary

The **Algebraic Function** block evaluates a user-defined, stateless Python
function at each simulation step.

It implements an algebraic mapping between input and output signals, possibly
depending on the current simulation time.

The python function that defines the algebraic relation must always return:
- A dictionary containing the output signals, with keys matching the `output_keys` parameter.
- It should always work and return outputs of the correct shape when called with any inputs.

---

## Mathematical definition

The block implements a general algebraic relation of the form:

$$
y[k] = g(t_k, \Delta t_k, u_1[k], u_2[k], \dots)
$$

where:
- $ u_i[k] $ are the input signals at step $k$,
- $ y[k] $ is the output signal,
- $ t_k $ is the current simulation time,
- $ \Delta t_k $ is the time step since the previous activation.

The function $ g $ is provided by the user as a Python function.

---

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Description | Required |
|------|------|-------------|----------|
| `file_path` | string | Path to the Python file containing the user-defined function. | Yes |
| `function_name` | string | Name of the function $ g $  to call inside the block. | Yes |
| `input_keys` | list[string] | Names of the input ports $ u_1, \dots, u_m $. | Yes |
| `output_keys` | list[string] | Names of the output ports returned by the output function. | Yes |
| `sample_time` | float | Execution period of the block. If omitted, the global simulation time step is used. | No | 

--- 

## Inputs 

Inputs are dynamically defined by `input_keys`. 

- Each input must be connected. 
- Each input is a NumPy array of shape $ (n,1) $. 

--- 

## Outputs 

Outputs are dynamically defined by `output_keys`. 

- Each output is a NumPy array of shape $ (n,1) $. 

---

## Execution semantics

- The block is stateless.
- The block has direct feedthrough.
- At each activation, the function is evaluated as:

```python
g(t, dt, **inputs)
```
